Frodo: You’re late.
Gandalf: A wizard is never late, Frodo Baggins.
Nor is he early. He arrives precisely when he means to. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gandalf: In the common tongue it reads One Ring to Rule Them All. One Ring to Find Them. One Ring to Bring Them All and In The Darkness Bind Them. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Frodo: Come on, Sam. Remember what Bilbo used to say: It’s a dangerous business, Frodo, going out your door. You step onto the road, and if you don’t keep your feet, there’s no knowing where you might be swept off to. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Boromir: One does not simply walk into Mordor. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Aragorn: [to Frodo] If by my life or death I can protect you, I will. You have my sword…
Legolas: And you have my bow.
Gimli: And my axe. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gollum: It came to me, my own, my love… my… preciousssss. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gandalf: You shall not pass! The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Sam: What we need is a few good taters.
Gollum: What’s taters, precious? What’s taters, eh?
Sam: Po-tay-toes! Boil ’em, mash ’em, stick ’em in a stew… The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Frodo: All right then, keep your secrets. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gandalf: [to Frodo] Keep it secret. Keep it safe. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Aragorn: I can avoid being seen if I wish, but to disappear entirely, that is a rare gift. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Saruman: [to Gandalf] So you have chosen… death. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gandalf: I have no memory of this place. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gandalf: Fly, you fools! The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Aragorn: I would have gone with you to the end, into the very fires of Mordor. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Aragorn: Not idly do the leaves of Lorien fall. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Legolas: They’re taking the Hobbits to Isengard! The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Gollum: Mustn’t ask us, not it’s business. Gollum, gollum. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Faramir: What did they steal?
Gollum: Myyy PRECIOUSSS. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Arwen: From the ashes, a fire shall be woken. A light from the shadow shall spring. Renewed shall be blade that was broken. The crownless again shall be king. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Arwen: Do you remember when we first met?
Aragorn: I thought I had wandered into a dream.
Arwen: Long years have passed. You did not have the cares you carry now. Do you remember what I told you?
Aragorn: You said you’d bind yourself to me, forsaking the immortal life of your people.
Arwen: And to that I hold. I would rather share one lifetime with you than face all the ages of this world alone. [hands him her pendant] I choose a mortal life.
Aragorn: You cannot give me this.
Arwen: It is mine to give to whom I will. Like my heart. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Eowyn: [to Aragorn] You do not command the others to stay! They fight beside you because they would not be parted from you! Because they love you. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Elrond: Our time here is ending, Arwen’s time is ending. Let her go… let her take the ship into the West. Let her bear her love for you to the Undying Lands, there it will be ever green…
Aragorn: …but never more than a memory. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Aragorn: Why have you come?
Eowyn: Do you not know?
Aragorn: It is but a shadow and a thought that you love. I cannot give you what you seek. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Arwen: Tell me what you have seen.
Elrond: Arwen?
Arwen: You have the gift of foresight. What did you see?
Elrond: I looked into your future and I saw death.
Arwen: But there is also life. You saw there was a child, you saw my son!
Elrond: That future is almost gone.
Arwen: But it is not lost.
Elrond: Nothing is certain.
Arwen: Some things are certain. If I leave him now, I will regret it forever. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Elrond: I come on behalf of one whom I love. Arwen is dying. She will not long survive the evil that now spreads from Mordor. The light of the Evenstar is failing. As Sauron’s power grows, her strength wanes. Arwen’s life is now tied to the fate of the Ring. The Shadow is upon us, Aragorn. The end has come. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Frodo: I can see the Shire… the Brandywine River… Bag End… Gandalf’s fireworks… the lights in the Party Tree.
Sam: Rosie Cotton dancing. She had ribbons in her hair. If ever I was to marry someone, it would’ve been her. [He starts to cry] It would’ve been her. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Frodo: My dear Sam. You cannot always be torn in two. You will have to be one and whole for many years. You have so much to enjoy and to be and to do. Your part in the story will go on. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Frodo: I will take it! [they don’t hear him; he raises his voice] I will take it! [they fall silent, looking at him] I will take the Ring to Mordor! Though… I do not know the way. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Frodo: I wish the ring had never come to me. I wish none of this had happened.
Gandalf: So do all who live to see such times. But that is not for them to decide. All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given to us. There are other forces at work in this world Frodo, besides the will of evil. Bilbo was meant to find the Ring. In which case, you were also meant to have it. And that is an encouraging thought. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Aragorn: I do not know what strength is in my blood, but I swear to you I will not let the White City fall, nor our people fail. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Frodo: Mordor… I hope the others find a safer road.
Sam: Strider’ll look after them.
Frodo: I don’t suppose we’ll ever see them again.
Sam: We may yet, Mr. Frodo. We may. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Frodo: I can’t do this, Sam.
Sam: I know. It’s all wrong. By rights we shouldn’t even be here. But we are. It’s like in the great stories, Mr. Frodo. The ones that really mattered. Full of darkness and danger, they were. And sometimes you didn’t want to know the end. Because how could the end be happy? How could the world go back to the way it was when so much bad had happened? But in the end, it’s only a passing thing, this shadow. Even darkness must pass. A new day will come. And when the sun shines it will shine out the clearer. Those were the stories that stayed with you. That meant something, even if you were too small to understand why. But I think, Mr. Frodo, I do understand. I know now. Folk in those stories had lots of chances of turning back, only they didn’t. They kept going. Because they were holding on to something.
Frodo: What are we holding onto, Sam?
Sam: That there’s some good in this world, Mr. Frodo… and it’s worth fighting for. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

I am commanded to go to the land of Mordor, and therefore I shall go,’ said Frodo. ‘If there is only one way, then I must take it. What comes after must come. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (book)

Aragorn: You have some skill with a blade.
Eowyn: The women of this country learned long ago, those without swords can still die upon them. I fear neither death nor pain.
Aragorn: What do you fear, my lady?
Eowyn: A cage. To stay behind bars until use and old age accept them and all chance of valor has gone beyond recall or desire.
Aragorn: You are a daughter of kings, a shield maiden of Rohan. I do not think that will be your fate. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Legolas: Look at them. They’re frightened. You can see it in their eyes. [in Elvish] And they should be. Three hundred… against ten thousand!
Aragorn: [in Elvish] They have a better chance defending themselves here than at Edoras…
Legolas: [in Elvish] Aragorn… they cannot win this fight. They are all going to die!
Aragorn: [in English] Then I shall die as one of them! The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Haldir: I bring word from Lord Elrond of Rivendell. An Alliance once existed between Elves and Men. Long ago we fought and died together. We come to honor that allegiance.
Aragorn: Mae govannen, Haldir. You are most welcome.
Haldir: We are proud to fight alongside Men once more. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Theoden: So much death. What can men do against such reckless hate?
Aragorn: Ride out with me. Ride out and meet them.
Theoden: For death and glory.
Aragorn: For Rohan. For your people. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Theoden: Let this be the hour when we draw swords together. Fell deeds awake. Now for wrath, now for ruin, and the red dawn. Forth, Eorlingas! The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

[Shadowfax rears]
Aragorn: Gandalf.
Gandalf: Théoden King stands alone.
Eomer: Not alone. Rohirrim! [Rohirrim gather behind him]
Theoden: Eomer!
Eomer: TO THE KING! The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Faramir: I think at last we understand one another, Frodo Baggins.
Madril: You know the laws of our country – the laws of your father. If you let them go your life will be forfeit.
Faramir: Then it is forfeit. Release them. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Gandalf: Courage will now be your best defence against the storm that is at hand – that and such hope as I bring. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (book)

Aragorn: The Beacons of Minas Tirith! The Beacons are lit! Gondor calls for aid.
Theoden: And Rohan will answer. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Elrond: You’re outnumbered, Aragorn. You need more men.
Aragorn: There are none.
Elrond: There are those who dwell in the mountain.
Aragorn: Murderers. Traitors. You would call upon them to fight? They believe in nothing. They answer to no one.
Elrond: They will answer to the king of Gondor. [pulls out Anduril] Anduril, Flame of the West, forged from the shards of Narsil.
Aragorn: Sauron will not have forgotten the sword of Elendil. The blade that was broken shall return to Minas Tirith.
Elrond: The man who can wield the power of this sword can summon to him an army more deadly than any that walks this earth. Put aside the Ranger. Become who you were born to be. Take the Dimholt Road.

Gamling: He leaves because there is no hope.
Theoden: He leaves because he must.
Gamling: Too few have come. We cannot defeat the armies of Mordor.
Theoden: No. We cannot. But we will meet them in battle nonetheless. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Gandalf: Hold them back! Do not give in to fear! Stand to your posts! FIGHT! The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Pippin: I didn’t think it would end this way.
Gandalf: End? No, the journey doesn’t end here. Death is just another path… One that we all must take. The grey rain-curtain of this world rolls back, and all turns to silver glass… And then you see it.
Pippin: What? Gandalf?… See what?
Gandalf: White shores… and beyond, a far green country under a swift sunrise.
Pippin: [smiling] Well, that isn’t so bad.
Gandalf: No… No it isn’t. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Eowyn: Courage, Merry, courage for our friends. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Theoden: Forth, and fear no darkness! Arise! Arise, Riders of Theoden! Spears shall be shaken, shields shall be splintered! A sword day… a red day… ere the sun rises!
Eowyn: [to Merry] Whatever happens, stay with me. I’ll look after you.
[the King rides past his men, hitting their spears with his sword as he goes]
Theoden: Ride now!… Ride now!… Ride! Ride to ruin and the world’s ending! The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Witch King: [taking Eowyn by the throat] You fool. No man can kill me. Die now. [Merry stabs the Witch King from behind; the Witch King shrieks and falls to his knees. Eowyn rises and pulls off her helm, her hair falls down over her shoulder]
Eowyn: I am no man. [she thrusts her sword into the Witch King’s helm and twists; he shrieks and implodes] The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Aragorn: We have time. Every day Frodo moves closer to Mordor.
Gandalf: Do we know that?
Aragorn: What does your heart tell you? The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Sam: Come on, Mr. Frodo. I can’t carry it for you… but I can carry you! The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Aragorn: Hold your ground, hold your ground! Sons of Gondor, of Rohan, my brothers! I see in your eyes the same fear that would take the heart of me. A day may come when the courage of men fails, when we forsake our friends and break all bonds of fellowship, but it is not this day. An hour of wolves and shattered shields, when the age of men comes crashing down! But it is not this day! This day we fight! By all that you hold dear on this good Earth, I bid you stand, Men of the West! The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Frodo: [holding out the Ring] Take it Gandalf![Gandalf backs away] Take it!
Gandalf: No, Frodo.
Frodo: You must take it!
Gandalf: You cannot offer me this ring!
Frodo: I’m giving it to you!
Gandalf: Don’t… tempt me Frodo! I dare not take it. Not even to keep it safe. Understand, Frodo. I would use this ring from a desire to do good… But through me, it would wield a power too great and terrible to imagine. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gandalf: For even the very wise cannot see all ends. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (book)

Frodo: I wish the ring had never come to me. I wish none of this had happened.
Gandalf: So do all who live to see such times. But that is not for them to decide. All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given to us. There are other forces at work in this world Frodo, besides the will of evil. Bilbo was meant to find the Ring. In which case, you were also meant to have it. And that is an encouraging thought. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Frodo: [talking about Gollum] It’s a pity Bilbo didn’t kill him when he had the chance.
Gandalf: Pity? It was pity that stayed Bilbo’s hand. Many that live deserve death. Some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them, Frodo? Do not be too eager to deal out death in judgment. Even the very wise cannot see all ends. My heart tells me that Gollum has some part to play yet, for good or ill before this is over. The pity of Bilbo may rule the fate of many. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Boromir: Gandalf’s death was not in vain. Nor would he have you give up hope. You carry a heavy burden, Frodo. Don’t carry the weight of the dead. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Frodo: I cannot do this alone.
Galadriel: You are a Ring-bearer, Frodo. To bear a Ring of Power is to be alone. [pulls out her hand] This is Nenya, the Ring of Adamant. And I am its keeper. This task was appointed to you, and if you do not find a way, no one will.
Frodo: I know what I must do, it’s just that… I’m afraid to do it.
Galadriel: Even the smallest person can change the course of the future. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gandalf: And so the weapon of the Enemy is moving towards Mordor in the hands of a Hobbit. Each day brings it closer to the fires of Mount Doom. We must trust now in Frodo. Everything depends now upon speed and upon the secrecy of his quest. Do not regret your decision to leave him. Frodo must finish this task alone.
Aragorn: He’s not alone. Sam went with him.
Gandalf: Did he? Did he indeed? Good. Yes, very good. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Gandalf: The treacherous are ever distrustful. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers (book)

Gandalf: I will not say Do not weep, for not all tears are an evil. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Sam: Mr. Frodo’s not going anywhere without me! The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Frodo: Go back, Sam. I’m going to Mordor alone.
Sam: Of course you are. And I’m coming with you. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Sam: I made a promise, Mr Frodo. A promise. Don’t you leave him Samwise Gamgee. And I don’t mean to. I don’t mean to. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gimli: Whatever luck you live by… let’s hope it lasts the night.
Legolas: Your friends are with you, Aragorn.
Gimli: Let’s hope they last the night… The Lord of The Rings: The Two Towers

Gimli: Where do you think you’re going?
Aragorn: Not this time, Gimli. This time you must stay.
[Legolas walks up to them, leading his horse] Legolas: Have you learned nothing of the stubbornness of Dwarves?
Gimli: You may as well accept it. We’re going with you, laddie. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Sam: [when he thinks Frodo is dead] Oh no! Frodo… Mr. Frodo, wake up… Don’t leave me here alone. Don’t go where I can’t follow… Wake up. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Gimli: Never thought I’d die fighting side by side with an Elf.
Legolas: What about side by side with a friend?
Gimli: Aye. I could do that. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Merry: Are you going to leave me?
Pippin: No, Merry. I’m going to look after you. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Aragorn: [to Frodo, Sam, Pippin, and Merry] My friends. You bow to no one. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Boromir: Our people, our people. I would have followed you, my brother… my captain… my king.
Aragorn: Be at peace, Son of Gondor. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Eowyn: Leave me alone, snake!
Wormtongue: Oh, but you are alone. Who knows what you have spoken to the darkness, alone, in the bitter watches of the night, when all your life seems to shrink, the walls of your bower closing in about you, a hutch to trammel some wild thing in? So fair, yet so cold like a morning of pale Spring still clinging to Winter’s chill.
Eowyn: Your words are poison! The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Theoden: [pick up a white flower] Simbelmyne. Ever has it grown on the tombs of my forebears. Now it shall cover the grave of my son. Alas, that these evil days should be mine. The young perish and the old linger. That I should live to see that last days of my house.
Gandalf: Theodred’s death was not of your making.
Theoden: No parent should have to bury their child .[Theoden drops to his knees and starts sobbing]
Gandalf: He was strong in life. His spirit will find the way to the halls of your fathers. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Gollum: [Sméagol is sobbing] Sméagol… Why does he cry, Sméagol?
Smeagol: Cruel men hurts us. Master tricksed us.
Gollum: Of course he did. I told you he was tricksy. I told you he was false.
Smeagol: Master is our friend… our friend.
Gollum: Master betrayed us.
Smeagol: No, not it’s business. Leave us alone.
Gollum: Filthy little hobbites. They stole it from us.
Smeagol: No… No. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Gollum: They cursed us. Murderer they called us. They cursed us, and drove us away. And we wept, Precious, we wept to be so alone. And we only wish to catch fish so juicy sweet. And we forgot the taste of bread… the sound of trees… the softness of the wind. We even forgot our own name. My Precious. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Denethor: Is there a captain here who still has the courage to do his lord’s will?
Faramir: You wish now that our places had been exchanged… that I had died and Boromir had lived.
Denethor: Yes. [whispering] I wish that.
Faramir: Since you are robbed of Boromir… I will do what I can in his stead. [Bows and turns to leave] If I should return, think better of me, Father.
Denethor: That will depend on the manner of your return. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Gandalf: Faramir! Your father’s will has turned to madness. Do not throw away your life so rashly.
Faramir: Where does my allegiance lie if not here? This is the city of the men of Numenor. I would gladly give my life to defend her beauty, her memory… her wisdom…

Theoden: I have left instruction. The people are to follow your rule in my stead. Take up my seat in the Golden Hall. Long may you defend Edoras if the battle goes ill.
Eowyn: What other duty would you have me do?
Theoden: Duty? No… I would have you smile again, not grieve for those whose time has come. You shall live to see these days renewed. No more despair. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Theoden: I know your face… Eowyn. My eyes darken.
Eowyn: No. No. I’m going to save you.
Theoden: You already did… Eowyn. My body is broken. You have to let me go. I go to my fathers, in whose mighty company I shall not now feel ashamed. Eowyn… The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Saruman: [to Gandalf] Your love of the Halfings’ leaf has clearly slowed your mind. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gandalf: [to Pippin] Fool of a Took! Throw yourself in next time, and rid us of your stupidity. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Treebeard: [about Orcs] They come with fire, they come with axes… gnawing, biting, breaking, hacking, burning! Destroyers and usurpers, curse them! The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Gollum: [to Sam] Stupid, fat hobbit. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Gandalf: [to Grima] Be silent. Keep your forked tongue behind your teeth. I did not pass through fire and death to bandy crooked words with a witless worm. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Treebeard: [after seeing the torn-down forest around Isengard] Saruman! A wizard should know better! [long loud yell] There is no curse in Elvish, Entish, or the tongues of men for this treachery. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Gandalf: Of all the inquisitive Hobbits, Peregrin Took, you are the worst. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Gandalf: Send these foul beasts into the abyss. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Bilbo Baggins: [to his party guests] I don’t know half of you half as well as I should like, and I like less than half of you half as well as you deserve. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gandalf: Confound it all, Samwise Gamgee. Have you been eavesdropping?
Sam: I ain’t been droppin’ no eaves sir, honest. I was just cutting the grass under the window there, if you’ll follow me.
Gandalf: A little late for trimming the verge, don’t you think?
Sam: I heard raised voices.
Gandalf: What did you hear? Speak.
Sam: N-nothing important. That is, I heard a good deal about a ring, and a Dark Lord, and something about the end of the world, but… Please, Mr. Gandalf, sir, don’t hurt me. Don’t turn me into anything… unnatural. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

I shall have to go. But- and here Frodo looked hard at Sam- if you really care about me, you will have to keep that DEAD secret. See? If you don’t, if you even breathe a word of what you’ve heard here, then I hope Gandalf will turn you into a spotted toad and fill the garden full of grass snakes. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (book)

Gimli: Well, here’s one Dwarf she won’t ensnare so easily. I have the eyes of a hawk and the ears of a fox. [Elves suddenly appear, covering them with arrows at point-blank range. Gimli looks very surprised]
Haldir: The Dwarf breathes so loud, we could have shot him in the dark. The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring

Gimli: You are a Wood-elf, anyway, though Elves of any kind are strange folk. Yet you comfort me. Where you go, I will go. But keep your bow ready to hand, and I will keep my axe loose in my belt. Not for use on trees, he added hastily, looking up at the tree under which they stood. The Lord of The Rings: The Two Towers (book)

Frodo: What food have we got left?
Sam: Well, let me see. Oh, yes, lovely, lembas bread. And look, more lembas bread! The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Gimli: It’s true you don’t see many Dwarf-women. And in fact, they are so alike in voice and appearance, that they are often mistaken for Dwarf-men.
Aragorn: [whispering to Eowyn] It’s the beards.
Gimli: And this in turn has given rise to the belief that there are no Dwarf-women, and that Dwarves just spring out of holes in the ground! [Eowyn laughs] Which is, of course, ridiculous. The Lord of The Rings: The Two Towers

Gimli: [failing to see over the wall] What’s happening out there?
Legolas: Shall I describe it to you?
Gimli: [turns] Hmm?
Legolas: Or would you like me to find you a box? [Gimli laughs] The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Gimli: Legolas! Two already!
Legolas: I’m on seventeen!
Gimli: Huh? I’ll have no pointy-ear outscoring me! [kills another one]
Legolas: [shoots two more arrows] Nineteen! The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Gimli: Oh come on, we can take ’em.
Aragorn: It’s a long way.
Gimli: Toss me.
Aragorn: What?
Gimli: I cannot jump the distance, you’ll have to toss me. [pauses, looks up at Aragorn]Don’t tell the Elf. The Lord of The Rings: The Two Towers

Gollum: [singing] The rock and pool, is nice and cool, so juicy sweet. Our only wish, [he whacks the fish on the rock] to catch a fish, [another whack] so juicy sweet. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Frodo: What’s in this?
Sam: Nothin’. Just a bit of seasoning. I thought maybe if we was havin’ a roast chicken one night or something…
Frodo: Roast chicken?
Sam: You never know. The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers

Merry: Welcome, my lords, to Isengard!
Gimli: You young rascals! A merry hunt you’ve led us on, and now we find you… feasting and… and smoking.
Pippin: We are sitting on a field of victory enjoying a few well-earned comforts. The salted pork is particularly good.
Gimli: [eagerly] Salted pork?
Gandalf: [exasperated] Hobbits. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

[in a drinking game]
Gimli: It’s the Dwarves that go swimming with little, hairy woman. [he burps]
Legolas: I feel something. A slight tingle in my fingers. I think it’s affecting me.
Gimli: What did I say? He can’t hold his liquor. [Gimli passes out]
Legolas: [to Eomer who is watching] Game over. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

Gollum: She’s always hungry. She always needs to feed. She must eat. All she gets is nasty Orcses.
Smeagol: And they doesn’t taste very nice, does they, Precious?
Gollum: No. Not very nice at all, my love. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King

The Mouth of Sauron: And who is this? Isildur’s heir? It takes more to make a King that a broken Elvish blade… [Aragorn cuts off the Mouth of Sauron’s head with one stroke of Anduril]
Gimli: I guess that concludes negotiations. The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King